[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> NASA has just announced
they will launch their own
independent study of UFOs,
a major change in policy
for the agency.
Is this the next step
towards full disclosure?
>> This is a dramatic U-turn.
I mean, you can't overstate
the importance of this.
>> This is "Gaia News."
On the heels of the
first public UFO
hearing on Capitol Hill
in more than 50 years,
NASA has just
announced they will
form their own
independent team to study
UFOs, or UAPs, as the
government now calls them.
Writing in a release, NASA
says they will study, quote,
"observations of events in the
sky that cannot be identified
as aircraft or known natural
phenomena from a scientific
perspective."
And Thomas Zurbuchen, NASA's
Associate Administrator
for Science, added, quote, "We
have the tools and team who
can help us improve our
understanding of the unknown.
That's the very definition
of what science is.
That's what we do."
For context and
perspective, we turn
to Nick Pope, who served at
the UK's Ministry of Defense
covering UFOs.
How big is this news from NASA?
>> Well, this NASA
announcement is groundbreaking.
I very much welcome it.
I think it's long overdue.
And I think it's
very interesting.
You could read it
a number of ways.
Firstly, you could say that this
was just filling an obvious gap
that the military and the
intelligence community
are actively researching
and investigating
as a result of
congressional interest.
And more than
interest, of course.
It's in the Defense
bill, so it's a mandate.
So you could just say that,
well, they want a science plan.
In all of this, NASA is
logically the place to do it.
But there's another way that
you could interpret that,
and NASA doing their own inquiry
is arguably a sort of statement
that they don't perhaps
have confidence in the way
that the DoD and the
intelligence community
are moving ahead, and they
want to do it their own way
and use their own
resources and capabilities.
>> This is a major break with
the past for the space agency,
who has avoided any serious
discussion of the aerial
phenomena for decades.
So why are they doing
this, and why now?
>> This is a complete
180-degree turn.
NASA previously
said, we are looking
for extraterrestrial life,
but it's a scientific search.
We are not as part of
that looking at UFOs.
We are not interested
in UFO sightings.
We have not investigated
and will not.
And now it's like,
oh, yeah, we'd
better take a look at this.
So either they realize that
they've been missing a trick,
or the doubters are correct
when they say, come on.
They were always in this game.
It's just now they've
got to be open about it.
But either way, this
is a dramatic U-turn.
I mean, you can't overstate
the importance of this,
because they were absolutely
adamant that they were not
going to touch this
subject, and now here they
are at the heart of it.
>> Nick Pope has been involved
with UFO study for nearly 30
years, looking at
the bigger picture.
What does this
announcement mean?
Could this lead
us to disclosure?
>> This is vindication.
This announcement is really,
I think, a validation
of what a lot of people
know, suspect, believe,
depending on who they are
and what access they've had.
And it's another
piece of the puzzle.
I mean, I think four or
five years ago, nobody
would have realistically thought
we'd be where we are now.
I mean, it's just
revelation after revelation.
The existence of the
Pentagon's AATIP program,
the US Navy videos
and photos of these,
classified briefings
in Congress,
a report from the Office
of the Director of National
Intelligence, public hearings,
open hearings in Congress,
and probably more to come.
And now this NASA announcement.
All I can say is, my goodness.
What's next?
>> The team will begin their
study this fall and should last
about nine months.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.